# TMDB Case Study



## Introduction

This data set contains information about more than 10,000 movies collected from The Movie Database (TMDb), including user ratings and revenue. There are all together 21 columns.

    - id : Unique ID of the given movie
    - imdb_id : Unique imdb id of the movie
    - popularity : Popularity score of the given movie (higher the score more popular the movie)
    - budget : total budget of the movie
    - revenue : total revenue generated by the movie
    - original_title : name of the movie
    - cast : main casts of the movie
    - homepage : website of the movie
    - director : director of the movie
    - tagline : tagline of the movie
    - keywords : main keywords of the movie
    - overview : a short description of the movie
    - runtime : total runtime of the movie in minute
    - genres : genres of the movie
    - production_companies : name of the production company of the movie
    - release_date : date when the movie was released
    - vote_count : total vote for the particular movie
    - vote_average : average rating of the movie
    - release_year : year when the movie was released
    - budget_adj : budget of the associated movie in terms of 2010 dollar
    - revenue_adj : revenue of the associated movie in terms of 2010 dollar

## Questions:

This analysis tries to find properties associated with revenue.

    - Does movie with higher budget generates higher revenue?
    - Does movie with higher runtime generate more revenue?
    - Is there any relationship between movie release year and revenue generated?

## Conclusions

    The revenue the movie generates is closely related to the initial budget of the movie which makes perfect sense as the movie that has higher budget will is more likely be good and may have been more advertised than the one with lower budget and hence they generate more revenue.
    
    Likewise,the revenue of movie also seems to depend on the runtime of the movie and it may be because people like to spend more money on longer movies than the shorter ones. Also, revenue seems to depend on the year the movie was released as with time revenue of movies has increased, i.e the later the movie was released the more revenue it tends to generate.
    
 [Click here for complete analysis report](https://github.com/RashikaKarki/Udacity_TMDB_CASE_STUDY/blob/master/Investigate_a_Dataset%20(1).ipynb)
